[Music]
I'm very happy to be here at exponential
finance while my slides are loading I
will actually maybe cause a little bit
of a stir loved amines presentation
great set up for what we do however
here's where I would disagree with his
point of view we believe that yes we're
in a in a deflationary world because of
all of the innovation that's evolving at
the same time today there are five
platforms evolving they're all
deflationary and we believe that the
public equity markets may be overvalued
if you're talking about the indexes but
the most undervalued part of any equity
market and I mean private or public is
innovation in the public markets now
consider the source it's what I do
innovation in the public markets the
other disagreement however would be on
the yield curve the last time the yield
curve inverted and was inverted during a
very strong period of economic activity
was during the last period of massive
innovation it was in the late 1800s
Early 1900s
the 50 years to 1929 the yield curve was
inverted more than half of the time with
the steepest inversions taking place
during periods of the most rapid growth
the innovations back then of course were
electricity telephone and the internal
combustion engine we've never seen we
had until that point never seen such a
period of innovation so we believe and
have believed for some time that the
yield curve will continue to flatten
because of this natural deflationary but
good deflationary force at work in the
economy enabled by technology and that
the short end of the curve will actually
go up especially when these trade
tensions are settled the short end of
the curve will go up relative to the
long end and maybe the entire curve will
shift up and we would not be surprised
to see an inverted yield curve and no
recession so with that I've got my
slides and let's go innovation platforms
what do we consider an innovation
platform we Center our research on
something called rights law rights law
is and you'll get this sense of
exponential growth here rights law says
that for every cumulative doubling in
units produced costs decline at a
consistent rate mr.right derived this
formula during the early days of
airplane manufacturing and he noticed
for every cumulative doubling and
airplay in the number of airplanes
produced costs declined at a consistent
rate when costs decline at a consistent
rate they tend to prices come down and
unleash waves of demand that's what
we're talking about when we talk about
exponential growth you can see in the
middle panel here that's electricity the
the start of electricity and you can see
how quickly it spread throughout the
manufacturing sector in the United
States and then the third characteristic
so so innovation platforms are
characterized by declining cost curves
they cut across economic sectors cut
across the world and the third
characteristic is they spawn more
innovation so the innovation platforms
that are evolving today you can see on
the right there we are publishing a
paper this week on this chart and what
we're trying to communicate here is we
have never been in a period of
innovation like we are now if we were
measuring this on the Richter scale in
terms of impact on the global economy
this would be a nine compared to maybe a
five or six in the late 1800s Early
1900s so you can see you have to look
back that far to the late 1800s early
to see multiple innovation platforms
evolving at the same time so back then
as I mentioned telephone electricity
internal combustion engine today we have
blockchain technology deep learning
robotics energy storage and artificial
intelligence these innovation platforms
are going to impact every sector and are
traveling around the world as I mean and
will set us up to understand very very
quickly so they're gonna transform every
company and every industry here you can
see the five innovation platforms are
the biggest bubbles on this chart but
there are other technologies each of the
five is going to be multiple trillion
dollars of market cap we believe in the
financial markets during the next five
to ten years you can see other
technologies evolving with them and you
can see the one specific to fin tech
which is what this conference is mostly
about so you can see mobile value
transfer devices artificial intelligence
in the cloud and blockchain technology
so two of the big five are at work in
the fin tech space so you can see that
modern financial industry evolved over
roughly a thousand years so in the 1100s
we had the first foreign exchange
contract in the 1600s the first stock
exchange
not until amazon did its one-click
payment system did did the modern age we
think start to take off so that was in
1999 and then you had P PayPal's
email payment system and then you had
Olli pays out payment system and you see
the explosion explosion in China's
mobile payment volume so in in 2017 when
I first saw the number nine trillion it
was 8.6
that China was reporting for its mobile
payment volume I just didn't believe it
I didn't believe it because its economy
was 11 trillion dollars and the consumer
was 35 40 percent of that and so I was
thinking very narrowly and incorrectly
and shame on me because I have an
economics background what we're seeing
here look at this
one trillion dollars in 2014 in China
China's mobile payments to 26 trillion
dollars that's only four years that was
2018 talk about exponential growth it's
two times their economy and China
accounts for more than 90 percent of all
mobile payments globally they have run
with this and if you go into China into
the into tier three tier four cities you
will see merchants in huts using only
WeChat WeChat pay they don't want cash
they're afraid of counterfeit cash and
they've and these are 70 and 80 year
olds you do not see that in in certainly
not in the United States and in the
developed world they didn't have the
financial rails to begin with they
didn't have a deeply entrenched banking
system most people in China were
unbanked now now they have a bank in
their pocket so and you can see two
times GDP how can that be well it's
because of the velocity of money in the
United States the velocity of money is
five so five times our GDP would be a
hundred trillion dollars five five times
China's today would be sixty five
trillion but they are soon going to pass
the United States so we are talking
about and they are showing the way to
the rest of the world Africa same
situation you don't have the financial
rails entrenched like we do we have kind
of good enough and a lot of inertia but
you can run with this you can run with
this and
you know at leapfrog the developed world
here are some of the other reasons this
this incorporates the velocity concept
so GDP just measures value-added at each
stage of processing where each
transaction captures all stages of
processing of course in FinTech and then
we've got gifting Retta envelope day in
china is huge p2p transfers tipping so
all all measure of activity that is not
captured by GDP so here we are for the
the global economy is roughly eighty
eighty five trillion dollars multiply
that by five so four hundred five
hundred trillion dollars in activity we
believe FinTech will touch during the
next five to ten years you can see the
digital companies that have spawned this
movement actually Amazon and and Alibaba
had to really start this digital wave
off with the one-click payment system
and app based app based payments and now
you're seeing you're seeing many other
more pure-play FinTech companies move
into into the game and and turbocharged
it square with square cash the digital
wallet which actually can buy and sell
Bitcoin with no transaction fees wire
card in Germany Ali Ali I mean PayPal in
the United States
Shopify Shopify is enabling a lot of the
Chinese goods to its the e-commerce
platform for many American companies so
that they can accept Chinese good so now
Millennials are accelerating the FinTech
revolution and here you can see where
we're harkening back well first of all
this is venmo if you don't know what
venmo is it's peer-to-peer you can
Millennials will go to a restaurant and
they'll all share a meal
then on venmo they'll just venmo each
other for whoever pays the others will
venmo their payment and it's very social
you can see who's doing what there are
some private privacy settings but most
people just are able to see well who
paid me back and who didn't and there's
a little bit of peer pressure there for
forty percent plus use venmo more than
once per day now that's the Millennials
you can see other age groups are
beginning to catch on but they're away
be half way behind and we go back to
social media the adoption of social
media back in 2006
Millennials were moving on to social
media about 40% of them were involved
and you can see here again much lower in
the older age groups actually if you go
back you can see that the older age
groups are adopting FinTech a little
faster relative to Millennials then they
did social media and part of the reason
for that is I know in my own case my
children want me to use venmo they want
me to be on venmo because guess what
it's a way for me to get money to them
really quickly whereas with social media
they did not want me to be on Facebook
or any other place so I think FinTech is
taking off for that reason a little
faster you can see 12 years later how
much every age group was participating
in social media and we do think the same
thing is going to be true of FinTech
although perhaps much faster you can see
that the unbanked there are about 1.7
billion I'm sure you've heard that
number and we'll hear it many times at
this conference but more than 1 billion
of the unbanked around the world have a
mobile phone and therefore they will and
they are beginning to carry their banks
around with them in their pockets or
their purses even in the United States
20 million people out of roughly 330
million
our unbanked that is about the same size
as the number of us customers that
Citibank has so it's a lot of people and
a huge unmet need out there one point
four trillion cash transactions per day
in in the world so lots of room for
FinTech to move in and take over so I
don't have to go through a lot of the
technology I mean that's such a good job
on that but we do think digital wallets
are going to become ubiquitous we are
looking as an investor we are looking
for the companies that are going to win
in this space those are going to be huge
investment opportunities because it's
going to be winner take most in the
United States the square cash app has a
really good opportunity there and venmo
does as well so you can see it's not the
traditional banks that are in the lead
here many of the banks I think in the
last few years thought that Square and
venmo were nipping at their heels you
know kind of a nuisance really
Millennials only and so forth but you
can see what has happened here if you
look at the number of digital customers
now this is just for the US because this
is the data that's easy to get if you
look at the number of US customer
digital asset accounts you'll find that
venmo is already number two right behind
JP Morgan and squares cash app is number
six what you don't see in this chart is
that both of them will probably they're
growing so much faster Square passionate
roughly 80% and venmo at roughly forty
percent that they are going to surpass
the the banks in terms of number of
digital accounts very very soon within
the next few years at the same time this
is going on another phenomenon is taking
place and it's actually being led by
Goldman Sachs
goldman sachs launched an online bank
and savings service no bricks and mortar
and they are while while square app
square cache app and venmo might have
been nipping at their heels from the
bank's point of view marcus is coming
right at the banks head marcus is
offering interest rates of two and a
quarter percent for deposits deposit
accounts compared to fifty basis points
or less for traditional accounts how can
they do this it's no bricks and mortar
compared to to the traditional banks so
their expenses are much lower and just
to give you a sense how quickly it's
spreading the Marcus phenomenon first of
all goldman sachs is a great name great
brand and my bookkeeper shifted my
account or some of my accounts to marcus
automatically without even talking to me
because she knew I'd be ok with it the
brand name and so forth so you know this
is a real problem for the banks
artificial intelligence so we believe
now as the reason we believe that
artificial intelligence is ready for
primetime you know we've heard about it
for years and years and it's been great
for science fiction but until recently
until Amazon and Netflix started making
suggestions for what we might like to
buy our watch and and Apple launched
facial recognition until those goods and
services came about it didn't really
affect our lives so why do we think
artificial intelligence is ready for
primetime now it's ready because we've
taken the human programmer out of a
large part of the equation so we've we
do a lot of work on autonomous vehicles
for example and and in autonomous
vehicles we know that a programmer
cannot possibly imagine every
permutation
that might happen in terms of
intersections and lane changing and so
forth just not possible however you
unleash big data and iterative
algorithms and supercomputing power and
just push those together this is very
hard for a human being to accept but
they will come up with better answers
and can imagine many more permutations
once we train them and we just need to
train them with data and algorithms and
supercomputing power to reach an outcome
that a human being does set I'd like to
get from a point A to point B safely and
as quickly as possible so so as we have
analyzed the the opportunity for
artificial intelligence we we took a
look back at the former computing wave
so the PC wave was the first one that's
responsible right now for about four
trillion dollars in market cap then over
the following 20 years to 2018 another
ten billion we can now attribute to the
internet and we believe over the next 20
years that there will be 30 trillion
dollars worth of market cap out of there
created because of artificial
intelligence compared to 1.5 trillion
right now so that's a 14% compound
annual growth rate I believe that is way
too conservative because all we're doing
is assuming that artificial intelligence
has the same amount of impact on on the
market as the internet did globally we
believe that artificial intelligence is
going to impact every line item of the
income statement and any business leader
not trying to figure out you're gonna
hear a lot about AI here not trying to
figure out how it applies to his or her
P&L line is going to be in competitive
trouble so here of course other ways and
again I won't dwell on these but I mean
did in his videos show how biometric is
going to become very very important in
terms of preventing fraud and
analyzing credit risk so we're pretty
excited about what artificial
intelligence is going to continue to do
to give you a sense of what AI is
already doing you can see on the right
hand side traditional lenders versus
square square in case you're not
familiar with it is if you've ever seen
a mobile phone you'll see I don't know
if it's in this country yet I don't
think so
but a little they'll be able to put a
little square on top of the mobile phone
so that we can swipe our cards and
you've got merchants running businesses
on their mobile phone with squares apps
so and and because Square is able to
monitor every transaction every minute
of the day of these businesses it it has
so many more data points than a
traditional lender when when Square says
to merchant you know it looks like you
might need a working capital loan or you
might you might want to invest some in
some equipment so it's starting to help
small small businesses build their
businesses because it has all of this
data and is able to under understand the
kind kinds of risks its dealing with but
look at the difference between Square
and and traditional lender it has three
hundred thousand data points to make
decisions on where as a tradition
traditional lender has eight hundred its
able to make these decisions in seven
minutes maybe not two seconds like a
mean set for a leap a but seven minutes
compared to sixty to ninety days for a
traditional lender in the world of small
business is a world of difference and
you can see the difference between the
kinds of data they're dealing with
continuous real-time data for square and
discontinuous and discrete for the
traditional lender so there's no
competition here there's just no
competition
and then finally bitcoin why is Bitcoin
ready for for primetime Bitcoin is ready
for prime time because it's serving a
huge unmet need
now in the US when we we were the first
asset manager the first public asset
manager in I think the world to gain
exposure to Bitcoin through the Bitcoin
investment trust in 2015 when it was at
250 dollars as you know today I think
it's close to nine thousand dollars
having round trip from twenty thousand
to three so we're still in very early
days but what we're already beginning to
see is it serves for low-cost
remittances and for faster trade
settlements
I've always wondered as an investor I
can trade something in a millisecond and
maybe thousands of milliseconds but it
still takes two days to settle that
doesn't make any sense there are too
many toll collectors too many middlemen
around the way along the way that is
going to change Australia is going to
launch its blockchain solution I think
in a year or so it's quite delayed but
we do believe that is the way these
markets are going to go as far as
remittances we we are already seeing
solutions I know from South Korea to the
Philippines the remittance market is a
six hundred billion dollar market even
though Western Union and others charge
eight percent eight percent and in some
cases I've heard in Nigeria for example
25 percent to to send money back home so
it's ridiculously expensive ultimately
what we think the Bitcoin blockchain is
going to do specifically is allow for
much cheaper its money over IP think
voice over IP I don't know if many of
you remember but technology futurists
were saying when my parents lived in
California and I lived in New York voice
is going to be free and I was thinking
yeah I bring it on because it was very
expensive to call today I have three
children they're in their 20s they
cannot believe I ever
paid for a phonecall right sounds crazy
but that was voice-over-ip this is money
over IP it's going to become the free
transmission of money over IP and we do
think the Bitcoin blockchain is the most
secure out there and we'll be the
biggest enabler for this ready for
primetime the Bitcoin blockchain last
year accommodated 1.3 trillion dollars
in transactions now this is not trading
activity this is transactions the
Bitcoin blockchain is completely
transparent so you can follow an IP
address and and figure out the
transactions 1.3 trillion is more than
twice PayPal's Network so this and
PayPal is very well developed in the
United States and it is spreading
internationally so how did this happen
in the United States many investors
don't believe this number but and it's
because we're not seeing it this in the
US the huge unmet need is not in the
u.s. at least not yet it's in Venezuela
where those people the people in that
country are losing their purchasing
power it's collapsing around them
terrible monetary policy terrible fiscal
policy and that's where you're seeing it
around the world
you're also we've done Studies on
confiscation of wealth I think if the if
the princes in Saudi Arabia had
understood what was going to happen to
them they might have had a private key
number in their head and had some assets
on the Bitcoin blockchain because they
wouldn't those would not have been
confiscated no one would have known
about them so if you if we've done lots
of studies and just that application
alone confiscation of wealth if you take
the highest net wealth individuals in
the world and you make the assumption
that they're trying to hedge against a
5% chance that their wealth will be
confiscated that alone and I'm talking
about not that
many people in the world that alone
would be a two point seven trillion
dollar opportunity for a Bitcoin
blockchain the other huge unmet need is
in countries where cross-border trading
and I know this is true in Africa where
cross-border trading is very very
expensive just because of the currency
conversions so if you look at the
average transaction size in that 1.3
trillion dollars of transactions it's
$15,000 and some will quip oh yeah
that's a drug money the drug money is
not on the Bitcoin blockchain anymore
because it's too transparent it's going
more to the dark chains Z cache perhaps
but not to Bitcoin know these we believe
our business-to-business transactions
it's b2b and we're pretty excited about
what the Bitcoin blockchain future holds
we do believe there will only be a few
crypto currencies now right now there
are more than 2,000 crypto assets we
believe there will only be two three or
four crypto currencies much like we see
now the reserve currency today in the
world is the dollar we know now from the
crash that we saw from twenty thousand
to three thousand dollars that bitcoins
market share of the crypto asset
ecosystem went from the low 30s to up to
now sixty that is what happens during a
flight to safety the the world reverts
to the reserve currency the reserve
currency of the crypto asset ecosystem
we believe is Bitcoin and there will be
a few more currencies just like there
are the yuan the euro the yen so we do
believe and and we're looking for those
but we also believe that most of the
2000 crypto assets in the world today
will be pretty worthless because the
velocity it's back to velocity an
economic concept here the velocity of
many of them is going to be enormous
because those who are working in the
crypto asset ecosystem are always going
to default to
reserve currency and we do think that
will be Bitcoin so with that I think I'm
I think I might have time for a question
or so if if if that's if we can allow
that here any questions I don't know if
this is a Q&A forum or not anyway well
anyway thank you we're really excited
about the future we think the biggest
undervaluation out there is in the
public markets innovation specifically
because what has happened since the tech
and telecom crash and the oh eight oh
nine meltdown there's been a shift to
what what investors perceive is safety
so there's been a lot of indexing and
passive investing guess what they are in
harm's way because those indexes are
filling up with value traps value
investors know this they know their
biggest risk is a value trap caused by
innovation growth investors don't
understand this yet but if we're right
growth investors are holding right now a
bunch of value traps because the world
that we are in is moving so blazingly
fast as you saw and China is setting the
pace in many ways as you saw from that
mobile payments chart one to twenty six
trillion dollars in four years that's
crazy all right thanks so much
[Applause]